So in the last lecture we used a post request to store data.
Now obviously we want to get back data,
so let's go to the dashboard.vue
file for example and let's say we want to load data when we visit this file.
So first of all, I'll add a script section and there, I'll export a default javascript object, our vue
component
and as I said I want to load something when we load this page.
So I'll simply add the created method which is a lifecycle hook of vuejs
and now here I want to reach out to the web.
So for that, I'll simply import axios from axios here
too and that will be the same instance of axios as the sign up files
so we're not somehow increasing our bundles size by importing it here too.
And then in the created method, I can simply run axios get and now get requires at least one argument,
that is the URL of course,
so let's copy the URL from the post request, let's enter it here.
You could pass a second argument where you configure this request
but for now let's simply chain
then again because
get also returns a promise and in then, we will also get back the response.
So here I will also console log the response and that will add a catch block where we could catch
and handle any incoming errors.
And of course you could now store the response in some field where you output it on the vue,
now that is something I will do but for now let me just do it like this.
If we now save this file,
let's move over, clear the console and move over to the dashboard and you see here, after a fraction of
a second because firebase is really quick, here we also see such a response object as axios gives it
to us. Status code 200,
couple of pieces of information about headers and request and then very interesting for us,
the data object which is a javascript object where the key is this cryptic string and the value is the
object we stored there with hobbies and so on.
So this is how easy we can send a get request, as you see it really doesn't take that much, it's super
straightforward and it gives you a nice and easy to use way, an alternative to sending http requests from
vue apps.
Now let's actually see how we can work with the data we get back here before we then dive into the
little bit more advanced axios features like configuring requests, intercepting requests and so on.